GATE CSE Syllabus 2025

GATE Syllabus comprises two sections. The first one is the General Aptitude Section which is of 15 marks, and the other one is the Computer Science, and Information Technology Section which is of 85 marks. We have briefly discussed the syllabus of

General Aptitude (GA) – 15 Marks
Verbal Aptitude	Basic English Grammar: Tenses, Articles, Adjectives, Prepositions, Conjunctions, Verb-noun Agreement, and Other Parts of Speech Basic Vocabulary: Words, Idioms, and Phrases in Context Reading and Comprehension Narrative Sequencing
Quantitative Aptitude	Data interpretation: Data Graphs (Bar Graphs, Pie Charts, and Other Graphs Representing Data), 2- and 3-dimensional Plots, Maps, and Tables Numerical Computation and Estimation: Ratios, Percentages, Powers, Exponents, Exponents Formula, and Logarithms, Logarithm Formula, Permutations and Combinations, and Series Mensuration and Geometry, Elementary Statistics and Probability
Analytical Aptitude	Deduction and Induction, Analogy, Numerical Relations, and Reasoning
Spatial Aptitude	Transformation of shapes: Translation, Rotation, Scaling, Mirroring, Assembling, and Grouping Paper Folding, Cutting, and Patterns in 2 and 3 Dimensions
Computer Science and Information Technology (CS/IT) – 85 Marks

1. Engineering Mathematics	
Discrete Mathematics
Propositional and First-Order Logic 
Sets, Relations, Functions, Partial Orders, and Lattices 
Monoids, Groups
Graphs: Connectivity, Matching, Coloring
Combinatorics: Counting, Recurrence Relations, Generating Functions 
Linear Algebra
Matrices
Determinants
System of Linear Equations
Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors
LU Decomposition
Calculus
Limits, Continuity, and Differentiability
Maxima and Minima
Mean Value Theorem
Integration
Probability and Statistics
Random Variables
Uniform, Normal, Exponential, Poisson, and Binomial Distributions 
Mean, Median, Mode, and Standard Deviation
Conditional Probability and Bayes Theorem


2. Digital Logic and Design	
Boolean Algebra
Combinational and Sequential Circuits
Minimization
Number Representations and Computer Arithmetic (Fixed and Floating Point)


3. Computer Organization and Architecture	
Machine Instructions and Addressing Modes.
ALU, Data Path, and Control Unit.
Instruction Pipelining, Pipeline Hazards.
Memory Hierarchy: Cache, Main Memory, and Secondary Storage
I/O Interface (Interrupt and DMA Mode)


4. Programming and Data Structures	
Programming in C
Recursion
Arrays, Stacks, Queues
Linked Lists, Trees, Binary Search Trees, Binary Heaps
Graphs


5. Algorithms	
Searching, Sorting, Hashing.
Asymptotic Worst Case Time and Space Complexity
Algorithm Design Techniques: Greedy, Dynamic Programming, and Divide-and-Conquer
Graph Traversals, Minimum Spanning Trees, Shortest Paths


6. Theory of Computation	
Regular Expressions and Finite Automata
Context-Free Grammar and Push-Down Automata
Regular and Context-Free Languages, Pumping Lemma
Turing Machines and Undecidability


7. Compiler Design	
Lexical Analysis
Parsing, Syntax-Directed Translation
Runtime Environments 
Intermediate Code Generation 
Local Optimization
Data Flow Analyses: Constant Propagation, Liveness Analysis, Common Subexpression Elimination


8. Operating System	
System Calls, Processes, Threads
Inter-Process Communication, Concurrency, and Synchronization
Deadlock
CPU and I/O Scheduling
Memory Management and Virtual Memory
File Systems


9. Databases	
ER-Model
Relational Model: Relational Algebra, Tuple Calculus
SQL
Integrity Constraints, Normal Forms
File Organization, Indexing (e.g., B and B+ Trees)
Transactions and Concurrency Control


10. Computer Networks	
Concept of Layering: OSI and TCP/IP Protocol Stacks
Basics of the Packet, Circuit, and Virtual Circuit Switching
Data Link Layer: Framing, Error Detection, Medium Access Control, Ethernet Bridging
Routing Protocols: Shortest Path, Flooding, Distance Vector, and Link State Routing
Fragmentation and IP Addressing, IPv4, CIDR Notation
Basics of IP Support Protocols (ARP, DHCP, ICMP), Network Address Translation (NAT)
Transport Layer: Flow Control and Congestion Control, UDP, TCP, Sockets
Application Layer Protocols: DNS, SMTP, HTTP, FTP, Email